so you know what good is therapy
to the people who to the people who need
it to the people who need it
that's that's the question i'm asking i
think a lot of people need to be
confronted on their [ __ ]
i do but i see the therapist as being
quite uh
hamstrung quite disabled quite unable to
confront them on
their [ __ ] that way even compared to
someone who say a co-worker
someone who's worked in the same office
with you for years and knows you even on
that shallow level
like look i know the excuses you make i
know you know i know what's going on in
your life
um if what you need is to have someone
who talks to you about your problems and
confront you on your [ __ ] and give
you a new perspective
i think the disadvantages of the
therapist's
position are much much more important to
appreciate than
the advantages now i think just going to
add this
i think it's really important to argue
against your own position
in these conversations to point out the
limits of requisition so just say very
briefly i think there are some problems
that are of such a technical nature that
the sciences actually
have given us uh you know
some expertise that therapists have and
that non-specialists don't have
i read a detailed account once of a guy
who would
become addicted to the feeling of
sandpaper
and like in all of the united states
there are like five people who
specialize in this
sorry that's a made up number but
there's an incredibly small number of
people with expertise
in this type of tactile addiction
and he was taken through a series of
steps of like
training where he moved from
sandpaper to finer grades of sandpaper
to using some kind of rough cloth to
using velvet
and like you know they weaned him off
his addiction
to abrading his skin with sandpaper
and i've read a detailed account of a
woman who was terrified of spiders
and she went to see a specialist in
arachnophobia and
to give an example of what her terror
used to entail she would completely
spray the interior of her car
with insecticide every time before
getting into it there was no reason to
think there was a spider inside
but just because the possibility of
there being a spider inside her car was
so terrifying then she'd drive her car
inhaling insecticide as she as she drove
around so this is really crazy
and you know apparently there was some
technical knowledge and the guy took her
through step by step
and got her to the point where she could
actually hold a spider in her hand and
not
freak out so to argue against my own
position i think there probably are some
areas where and look
i'm being jejune here i'm assuming those
articles weren't lying i haven't taken
one moment to look at what percentage of
people who get treatment for
arachnophobia improve
and what percent of people don't improve
or get no significant benefit
you know that that may you know it may
be when you look into it that actually
treatment for arachnophobia and this
type of uh tactile abrasion addiction
that actually the success rates are
shockingly poor
it would not surprise me given the
research i've done on antidepressants
and many other things
maybe in reality these are cherry-picked
success stories
from a field that is paralyzed by its
inability to actually cure anything
seems to be the case with therapy or
broadly speaking however
i can imagine that your argument
specifically
that you can't rely on your friends to
address these things that could be true
of arachnophobia like
your grandfather or your brother or your
coworker
they just don't want to deal with the
fact that you're terrified of spiders
and they don't like this is sort of
technical enough they don't want to deal
with it or they don't want to deal with
the fact that you're addicted to
rubbing yourself with sandpaper um
yes so to argue against my position i
think
my perspective has limits and it's only
valid within those limits
unfortunately that does not mean that
treatment or therapy is successful
outside of those limits henia mania
doesn't have
rare problems let's name her youtube
channel first name henya last name mania
her problems are not rare they're not
extraordinary
and she now has decades of going in and
asking for professional help
and nobody can help her and sooner or
later they just admit that
that there's nothing they can do to help
her with her psychological problems
i think that is a damning portrait of
where this
science and this uh this province of the
performing arts
has progressed to in the year 2020
they might have underlying borderline
personality disorder and you can spend
hours and hours trying to talk to them
about it but not really get anywhere
because what they actually need is
genuine therapy and so i guess
and then another people in the chat are
making a couple points that i also think
are valid which is like some a lot of
the things people want to talk to a
therapist about are very private you
don't want to reveal it to a friend
so in any event it sounds like after
talking to you your
my perception of your stance which was
sort of just pure anti-therapy
maybe it was a little hyperbolic maybe
you do see some potential value but it
sounds like oh yeah in my video that has
in the title
uh get professional help there is no
professional help it concludes by saying
go ahead and knock on every door go
ahead go to the psychiatric hospital go
to
wherever it is you can get help go and
ask for help find out what they can do
for you
but sadly be prepared for the
possibility
that there is no help because that's
happened to me
i went i knocked on every door here this
is victoria british columbia canada this
is the capital
city of this province right and there
was no help for me under any heading
including employment help including
counseling for what my major should be
at university like some of my problems
are very mainstream
it's like oh including the the
internship program but yeah including i
went and
knocked on the doors for therapy or
whatever and it's like look this is a
really hard time in my life
can anyone help me and the answer is no
so this is another thing i mean i think
your own position has has a very clear
limit in this
which is that you know if you think
there's there's help out there
sometimes you have to take no for an
answer um sometimes you will knock on
that door and you will ask for help and
you're going to be disappointed when
you're just told no you're on your own
there's absolutely nobody's going to
help you
and here sorry in vancouver or victoria
or los angeles
you may also be told no all we do is
help drug addicts get on methadone
because that's what the entire service
is devoted to it's completely overrun
with drug addicts and that's the only
form of social service that can include
everything from the unemployment
services
to the psychiatric services that's
that's all they're dealing with so
nobody's going to help you
i've i've knocked on the doors for legal
aid i just mentioned i have a
divorce tried to get legal assistance
i've tried to get every kind of help
i can get i live in a the capital city
of my province in a first world
country and my experience is
there's nothing henya's experience is
there's nothing we matter
we're witnesses to this this period of
history so for anyone who has a kind of
um
you know just a best case scenario
optimistic view of what these
institutions are doing
with their billions of dollars of
taxpayers money
i've got to tell you my role is to be a
canary in the coal mine and warren
if you go and ask for professional help
be prepared be prepared for that worst
case scenario
[Music]
[Applause]
i think that's valid i'm not gonna i
have no pushback on that one
um but look maybe maybe you do know
people whose lives have really improved
because of therapy i don't
but if you do um you know that matters
too you know
well i do but i also know people who
have been completely
abandoned by the system and betrayed by
this tried every avenue and received no
help so i've kind of seen both sides of
it
money is clearly a factor the people
that have gotten help were not
you know destitute yes i knew i knew a
guy
was a millionaire but he was just kind
of creepy his mannerisms his face like
he wasn't somebody people want to talk
to
sorry it is it is part of the story he
had like he didn't have a hundred
million dollars he had a couple million
dollars
he was a multi-millionaire and um uh he
looked old he looked like he was in his
late 70s
i forget maybe he was in his 60s uh just
just a creepy disturbing guy to be where
most people didn't want to talk to him i
was i'm a very self-confident person but
i can understand like if you talk to
people about his problems
and i remember that guy he went through
the therapy olympics
you know remember that guy and to me he
was like this great example of you're
the most privileged person in the world
you know you're this multi-millionaire
living and living in toronto canada
he was and you know he needed a friend
he needed help he needed a gre he was
too old to have a grandfather but he
need
he needed help he needed love um
you know he he needed meaning and
guidance he needed a lot of things for
people he needed a lot of things he
wasn't getting
and uh sadly i don't i don't think he
got it out of the psychiatric
establishment but i
i have a human heart i sympathize with
all sides like i sympathize with that
dude
taking his millions of dollars and
trying to get help and i sympathize with
the therapist who's probably sitting
there like oh christ i gotta sit here
and listen to this creepy old man
talk about his creepy old man and just
they probably just didn't sympathize i
just didn't care
get out of here with your millions of
dollars you they probably you know i
don't know
keeping it all the way real